Meghan Markle and Prince Harry are reportedly directing their staff to take measures to protect them and their son from the coronavirus pandemic.
The duo is reportedly self-isolating at their home in Canada after finishing up the last of their official royal duties in the U.K. Although they are reportedly happy to be in Canada during this time of uncertainty, a friend tells The Daily Mail that Harry is concerned for his royal relatives across the pond.
“Meghan said they are grateful, especially Harry, that they could spend time with his family before all this insanity began,” an insider told the outlet.
“Meghan said [Harry] has been in contact with both his father and grandmother. He urged them to stay safe and to take extra precautions,” the person continued.
Representatives for the royal family did not immediately return Fox News’ request for comment.
The insider also claims that the Duchess of Sussex is taking special precautions to protect her and her family from infection such as requiring the people who work on their property or run errands such as grocery shopping to wear latex gloves at all times and to follow a strict hygiene protocol.
The royal couple welcomed their first child, Archie Harrison Mountbatten-Windsor, in May of 2019.
“Only a select few will be able to interact with her, Harry and Archie. She said she's keeping it to a bare minimum," the friend claims.
Although the couple seems to be taking measures to prevent getting the COVID-19 virus themselves, the friend notes that neither Meghan nor Harry are sitting idle. They are reportedly working with a mental health non-profit to “create some sort of online support system for those most vulnerable, like new mothers suffering from postpartum depression.”
“Meghan said just because they are isolating themselves, it doesn't mean they can't help. They aren't just sitting around at home doing nothing,” the insider added.
They continued: “Meghan told her inner circle that what's happening in the world right now is a mental health crisis.”
These sentiments were echoed by a recent post on the Duke and Duchess' official Instagram page in which they thanked professionals who are currently dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic. They also explained what their strategy will be going forward.
"We will be sharing information and resources to help all of us navigate the uncertainty: from posting accurate information and facts from trusted experts, to learning about measures we can take to keep ourselves and our families healthy, to working with organisations that can support our mental and emotional well-being," the post reads.
"In addition, we will focus on the inspiring stories of how so many of you around the world are connecting in ways big and small to lift all of us up," the post adds. "We are all in this together, and as a global community we can support each other through this process – and build a digital neighbourhood that feels safe for every one of us."
Above all, Markle is reportedly urging those around her not to panic.
“She said panicking won't do any good. It's just not an option in her household. She doesn't want Archie picking up on any unnecessary stress and tension,” the insider concluded. “Her home is her sanctuary and it's a place of peace and calm.”
A royal source recently told People that, in addition to taking measures around the home, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex are “taking government advice” on how best to conduct themselves in the face of the coronavirus pandemic.